Hi friends! I'm revising our emergency protocols, particularly missing camper. How much time elapses in a missing camper situation before you contact law enforcement for assistance? At what point do you contact the camper's family? 
Items specific to our situation: Our camp is in Detroit, so we have local police, security companies, and our own law enforcement who can assist. We're also right along the Detroit River and in a very public area, which adds to the challenge of finding a camper.

I recently found out my full time camp position is being eliminated at the end of the summer. I have had an almost 15 year career as a camp director (in a few different non-profit organizations) with almost 5 years at my current one. I have been struggling for the last year with feelings of burn out but I’m not sure if it’s the job or the organization. 
If you were in my shoes, how would you determine if you needed a break from camp all together or just a new start with a new org? 
This was completely unexpected and I am at a loss. Any help or advice would be appreciated

Ryan Hughes
Hello all, we are revamping how we communicate maintenance issues that need to be worked on, but we are not big enough to look at a full-on software program. I am wondering if anyone has a work order form or something of that nature that I can look at? Thanks in advance.
Edit: I’m looking to design a form sooo I looking for the wording in your forms.
HEY RYAN! I’m not sure if this is exactly what you are looking for, but we have QR codes posted in our buildings that go to camphopewell.com/maintenance
These forms are completed & go to Robert’s (our site director’s) email.
I know you said no software, but MaintainX is free for small companies and is so easy to use. It’s a maintenance app that you can get on your phone and it’s so easy to submit work orders, and easy to see the progress of them.
We use Microsoft forms, with a QR code the cabins/staff can scan. It’s automated to send an email to our maintenance supervisor when a form is submitted, while maintaining a spreadsheet of all requests made.
My school board uses something like this for key fob requests and such. The most helpful part is make sure it’s set to require email or other identifiable information just in case your information doesnt end up sorted or recorded quite the way you meant at first 
Another vote for the QR codes:
Google forms might work for you. You can have replies emailed, automatically.

We are very rural and using community halls and soccer pitches and small playground for camps. We want to do sport specific training for elementary ages. Focus on sportsmanship physical literacy intro to nutrition and hydration.
Any suggested resources? Games and activities you’d highly recommend? Both for staff training at camps and for the kids mostly ages 7 to 12.

Hi all! I've been marketing camp for about 12 years now. Our camp is an individual registration experience. We had record registrations across all of our locations at the end of February, but then we seemed to hit a wall and plateaued in a season we usually see a steady increase. 
Did anyone else experience this? I'm doing a big of pre-work on a marketing review to see if there may have been macro conditions that impacted us, or if our years-over proven strategy needs adjusting. 
I've found a few articles about consumer sentiment and spending that support the idea of macro conditions, but wanted to see if other camps experienced this before assigning too much value to that idea. 
(Photo of me teaching at our Staff Training last week to prove I'm a real person 😄)

Working on our leadership staff training for the summer and I think I’ve been looking at this too long 🥴 what are some topics that you consider top priority when training your leadership team?

What are you using to get and keep the sweaty feet/body odor smell out of your passenger vans? 

Ongoing Games during staff training.  Here are a few we have done.  What are some that you like?  We like to introduce a new game to our staff every day.  
Ladder Tournament - Ongoing Carpetball Tournament
Ongoing Elimination Game (Gotcha)
Clothes Pin (being aware of your surroundings) (Tick Check)
Dart Game
Yellow Sharpie - Elimination Game
Clue (Person, Place, Item), Mafia
Arrowwood 60 (or 100)

Hi camo pros! Anyone in the Cinci/dayton area know of /have an indoor pool? We are hosting a lifeguard training but the outdoor pool in this cold is not working for us!

Looking to add some new things to our lakefront! Currently, we have several canoes, a few paddleboards, and a couple of kayaks. We were thinking of corcls and not adding any inflatables (like water trampolines). Any suggestions? We are also debating whether to get two-person kayaks compared to one-seaters. Our programs are for ages 4-15.

What are the ways you help promote cross-departmental gratitude and empathy throughout the summer? 
We all know that every job at Camp is hard (kitchen, counselors, facilities, camp director) and I am looking for more ways for all folks to recognize the hard work everyone is doing and would love some fresh ideas!

Anyone in Michigan know where I can purchase CPR training mannequins in person, or possibly rent some? Ours haven’t arrived on time and they’re needed for the end of next week.

Any northeast camps have a contact for half logs like this to make benches?

Ga-Ga Pits: What are you using for the bottom/ floor and what are your thoughts about how that is going?
Dirt? Wood Chips? Gravel? Artificial Turf? Is there something else that you've loved? Any cautionary tales about a surface that really did not work? Ours are dust bowls in the summer and you can tell which kids played because they look Pigpen after 1 or 2 games.

Hi Everyone,
I’m currently looking for a full-time, year-round position and would appreciate any leads you might have. I bring over 10 years of experience in the camping world, having worked in roles ranging from counselor to camp director. I’m especially passionate about creating meaningful, growth-focused experiences for youth and staff alike.
I would love to continue my journey with the YMCA, but I’m also open to opportunities with other organizations that align with my values and experience.
If you know of any openings or have suggestions, please feel free to reach out. Thank you so much for your support!

Does anyone serve Zee-Zee's products at their camp? I am wanting to purchase some but havent been able to try any. My rep told me I could get some samples, but it has been taking a little longer than I would like. I just want to make sure kids actually like the products! I am mostly interested in the bars and the fava bean crisps. Thank you!

Has anyone noticed that kids are getting pickier when it comes to food? I don’t mean AFRID/Sensory issues, just kids refusing to try new things, booing at meals, etc. 
We’ve been open for 10 years now and have served a similar menu. We have 5 and 3-day camps. Food has always been a high point. Homemade meals from scratch. Deconstructed meals so kids can choose what they want to eat. Fresh salad bars. Homemade pizza, Mac and cheese, stir fry, burgers, spaghetti, eggs, toast, oatmeal, cereal, yogurt, etc. 
Now my staff are reporting that there are multiple kids at every meal who turn up their nose at everything that is offered and end up eating toast or a grilled cheese. It drives them nuts. 
I’m of the mind that we offer the meal and they can have a piece of fruit to get them to the next meal if they won’t eat any of it, but then we worry about them not eating enough and also going home and saying we fed them nothing but apples. 
Would love any advice on:
1) How to handle picky eaters (at multiple meals) from a logistical standpoint (do we keep track of what meals they don’t eat, loop in parents at a certain point?)
2) Have you noticed this trend and how have you responded to it?
I don’t think it’s the meals or quality as the majority of kids enjoy (and often rave about) them. But it’s getting exhausting having 5-6 kids every meal doing this.

Does anyone have a recommendation for walkie talkies with a long range (up to 5 miles)? Waterproof is a must also. Thanks in advance!

Hi Y'all! in an effort to have our day camp staff leave their phones behind in staff spaces, we want to get them Bluetooth speakers and MP3s that have Bluetooth capability. Does anyone have any recommendations on particular brands that have held up really well in your camp conditions?

Ok @everyone How we feeling? What’s keeping you up at night What are you most excited for? Camp is just around the corner and over 25 million kids are so lucky to have you!
So stressful and every year I swear I’m not going to do it again, but alas here I am! ☀️ And oh yeah, it gets better every year!! 💥
Love this and grateful for the reminder! I get caught up in the craziness of prep and the business but forget how lucky we are!!!!
I’m so excited to hear the laughter and excitement of the campers. We are so lucky!!Getting everything ready for the staff to arrive us keeping me up at night.

Can we have a petty/minor complaint sesh? Maybe we there's someone in here with a solution for you! 
My minor complaint is that I can't find my perfect little Goldilocks version of band-aids. Everything is either too cool looking, too expensive, skin tone colored, or potentially sketchy looking brand. I just want some basic colors that work for everyone but not so interesting that we don't have kids making up injuries to add to their collection. What happened to the crayon bandaids? I feel like those would be perfect.

Good morning all! Reaching out today looking for a long term opportunity:
Background: I was hired earlier this year for a director position that was being filled by an interim-director, the position had been offered to them, they declined, I was hired. Interim-director has now changed their mind and now I am losing the position in order to bring former interim back. frustrated noise followed by doing some internal work to be understanding and professional
A little about me: 12+ years in camping (youth and adults with disabilities), CPO, CPR/First Aid/AED, Dependent Adult and Child Abuse Reporter, Adult Mental Health First Aid, Trauma Informed Trainings, been through many ACA visits, experience with HHS/DHS and waivers/billing. Previous certifications in high/low ropes, climbing wall, archery, shooting sports, ARC lifeguard...
I do have a family and a mortgage so remote opportunities throughout winter months would be ideal, but absolutely willing to move/travel for the right fit.
Questions welcome!
Pic from a recent foraging hike for attention

Does anyone have a graphic of proper camp attire for staff?

I've received a ton of questions over the last few months about the availability of Neffy this summer.  Neffy is a needle-free alternative to auto-injectors like EpiPen.  I've worked very closely with the manufacterer to make this available to camps, and as of last week it is!

I’m reaching out on behalf of Camp Glacier Hollow in central Wisconsin. Due to a last-minute medical situation, our summer camp cook had to step away, and we’re in urgent need of someone to fill the role ASAP.
We’re looking for someone who can prepare kid-friendly meals, manage a simple camp kitchen, and be part of a fun and supportive team.
If you or someone you know is available—or has a lead—please message me. We’re open to camp staff, kitchen pros, or anyone with experience cooking for groups.

I've been doing camp programming for a long time now and sometimes I feel like I'm doing the same things and I just need fresh ideas.
Specifically at the moment, I have been thinking that we need to be better prepared with back-up rain plan ideas for our evening programs. We do not have a gym and so most of our evening programs are planned for outside. I just need some ideas up my sleeve for rain plans. Depending on the week, I have anywhere from 50-100 kids for our overnight camps, and ages of kids varies by the week. Again, no gym. We have a chapel (with chairs that can be moved) and a large multipurpose room.
So please share with me your favorite indoor evening program ideas.

We need to add a fun physical recreation or game for older elementary students that will cost around $2,000.  Any fun suggestions? 
We already do  field games, Gaga, 9 square, wiffle ball, volleyball, basketball, 4 square, tetherball, carpet ball, bazooka ball, archery, air rifles, sling shots, hatskeet shooting, hatchets, zip line, milk crate stack, rock wall, creek hike, and crafts.

We are looking into different ways to pay our international staff. Previously, we have helped them open BofA accounts but because of the monthly fees that incur after direct deposit stops going in or minimum balance isn't met, they have been closing them after summer. This makes tax season a nightmare. Would love tips that don't cost us much financially or timewise! Ideally, we want an option that leaves an account open where they can leave a couple hundred dollars for taxes.

We know most campers get homesick and some ask to call home. If your camp has a policy that does not allow the camper to call home immediately then how do you respond when the camper asks why? They are smart and know we have an office phone
Posting anonymously as I have other members from my camp on here… I really wished they gave me more training on this!! I really feel thrown in the deep end! Do you have any advice for childcare directors whose main responsibilities mainly include helping with homesickness and parents!!

Best bang for the buck with walkie talkies for summer camp?

I have 1 hopefully helpful tip and 1 free thing!
As we prepare to invite a bunch of young people onto our properties, I always had a relationship talk with my staff and used the 3 c’s
1. Consent: everything needs to happen with the full, enthusiastic consent of everyone involved.
2. Contraception: use it. There are many methods and everyone involved is responsible for using it correctly.
3. Consideration: camp has many people with many feelings, and tight quarters. Be considerate of people’s personal space and make sure your business does not become theirs!
And in a weird giveaway, I have a super old Apple TV that isn’t worth anything and doesn’t stream anything BUT it does cast Apple devices so if you don’t want to be tethered or are tired of playing the connection game, I’m happy to send it to the first person who comments!

Do any canoe tripping or wilderness camps have any old DeLorme inReach SE devices that they would be willing to donate or sell to Camp Outlook (located in Ontario, Canada)? Unfortunately, one of ours took an unplanned swim in the lake and needs replacing.
We're approaching the point where we need to replace all of our satellite devices, but we're hoping to stretch it out for another summer or two. As a 100% volunteer-run camp where campers attend for free, reusing gear for as long as possible makes a huge difference.
Thank you in advance for any help or leads you can provide!

I'm looking for some suggestions. My partner just got promoted to her first ever position as Camp Director (woot woot!) and I'd like to get her a gift which might come in handy this summer. Do y'all have any recommendations for things which you found  helpful as a camp director or some other camp administrator role? Any and all suggestions or experience would be appreciated. 
And it can be professional or personal! If a specific coffee contraption or wind-down strategy/product/experience really improved your days, I'd love to hear about that as well!
Some basic info about the camp: She's heading a day camp in the city in which time is split between a large building, a big city park, and a city pool. It's an all-ages camp, and is around 80-100 kids. There are around 20 staff members.
Please let me know if there's any other info I could provide which would prove helpful. I'm excited to hear what you all have to share!

Does anyone use an international staffing company (not Camp America) that they are really happy with? Camp America has now cancelled two of my staff with no explanation and honestly getting in contact with our rep has been exhausting. Looking for better options for next year.

As our team talked about evening cabin rituals, we talked about "highs and lows" or "pow wow" or "thumbs up, thumbs down" for how was your day. I grew up doing "thorn, rose, bud" with the third one being a hope for the day. My coworkers translated the three-part version into Spanish "jajas, cacas, and piñatas."

What do you do differently, if anything, when training leadership/ supervisor staff outside of your general staff training?

Hi all—looking for some thoughtful guidance from folks who’ve navigated this.
We run a sleepaway camp focused on empowering girls through music education. Campers typically sleep 3–4 to a dorm, and over the years we’ve welcomed many youth who identify as nonbinary and transgender. To date, we haven’t had trans girls attend (that we know of), but we have had several trans boys.
Sometimes, a camper will arrive with he/him pronouns and a name different from what was listed on registration. Occasionally, a bunkmate writes home saying something like, “I thought this was an all-girls camp, but my roommate is a boy,” and this can lead to confusion or concern from parents. Because of privacy laws and our own ethical commitments, we can’t share details about another camper’s identity—so sometimes parents withdraw their child, which ends up deeply hurting the trans camper involved.
This situation has come up several summers in a row, and we want to do better—for our trans campers, for our broader community, and for the families we serve. How have others created supportive, affirming policies or communication strategies around this, especially in all-girls or single-gender spaces?
Really appreciate any ideas or models that have worked for you?

Hello All. I have been tasked with delivering our risk management session during Staff Orientation. I would love any fun and exciting ideas on how you deliver this content when it may not be the most thrilling topic. Pic for attention!

What do you all use in the base of your Gaga pits? Ours is currently dirt and creates a massive dust cloud when it’s dry in the summer. It is a wood pit and isn’t able to be moved.

As camp season starts up soon this year we are already planning for next year. We’ve been closed for a while since covid and reopened last season as a day camp. Hoping to get numbers up this year and haven’t hit our target for day campers. I would love to pitch the idea of doing day and overnight next year, at least for a few weeks as a trial run. How do you staff? Do you have two shifts or one? What does your pay structure look like? Other thoughts?

It's going to be an awesome summer of hatchet throwing at Lake Nixon Outdoor Center. Anyone else trying out axes, hatchets or tomahawks this summer?

What App or Program do you use to schedule summer staff?

I am working on an active shooter policy/Safety Plan for our Day camp. Would anyone be willing to share theirs with me? Any advice or guidance is super appreciated!

Hi friends, I’m sure all of you are super busy and understand if a response to this question may take too long. That’s said, I may post again. ￼ I just shared in another post that are enrollment is down this year. We really haven’t bounced back since Covid. My boss wants me to do some research on what are the current trends in camp programming??. Not quite sure where to start with that question. Has anyone come across any research? Perhaps I can start by asking what are your more popular programs?

If you're a sleepaway camp , how's registration?

The ticks are horrid this year at our camp in mid Michigan. Do any of you have any suggestions for preventative before I go buy a bunch of chickens? 

What’s a gap that most camps have in need of a software solution? Do most camps use a camp management software that covers all the needs? I’ve often thought the nightmare registration process in big metros could really use a lottery or ticketing solution to make it more equitable and eliminate the 8 AM mad-scramble, but maybe that’s not seen as a problem by camp owners.
Joel Van Egbert
I’m a consultant and own camps across the country and in the Caribbean.
One of my specialties is reviewing registration software. So I love this question! CampMinder is above and beyond the best choice for just camps, but there always more features I’d like to see in this ever-changing landscape.
I do wish for better app connectivity, a direct POS system, more automation like adding deposit fees during cancellation and the ability choose your ACH/CC/Debt processor.
If anything, registration and camp management software needs to simply their UI while maintaining a rich feature set.
Thanks again for asking this, I’m excited to see what others say
Matt Chamberlain
This might be more niche than you're looking for, but I would like to be able to mass email potential campers/parents before they have been registered. I love CampBrain's auto emailer and I have an email list of a couple thousand parents that would like information. It would be nice to be able to use our camp management system's auto emailer to send out that mass email, instead of doing it on a separate platform.
To be fair, I haven't inquired about this in a couple of years, so maybe CampBrain would do this now.
Adam Griff
Integrated payroll. Campminder is great for hiring staff, but if it could also pay them for me and deal with all the forms, taxes, etc that would be a game changer.
Kyle Branin
Quickbooks integration.

Curious on how much time you all offer on a ropes course for your campers. We have group sizes of up to 15. Our person here says a minimum of 3 hours, curious what your time blocks look like and what that entails. Transfer based course with 6-10 elements depending on the course. (Cant remember my course terminilogy) hope that helps.

For camps that rent their space - either tenant or landlord -  what is a market rate to rent a camp full time, year round, that is quite rustic - dining hall, a couple buildings, mostly tent platforms - on a lake, etc. but that will need a lot of work and investment, presumably by the tenant, to bring up to modern standards.
Annual rent, lease duration, cost per camper per week/season, etc. 

We're a small day camp, so 1 case will last us the whole summer; does anyone have a US Foods brand of spaghetti sauce they can recommend?

Seeking Virginia Overnight Camp Pros - Help please! My patience is now testing negative. This is our first time filing a summer camp permit and it is needed per our state regulations. It has to be submitted a min 30 days before the camp.
The questions I have are:
1) Who do I make the check out to?
2) Where do I send the application and payment to? 
I have talked to 21 people this afternoon, and not a single one knows. Local department of health for where the site rental is says state might know. State says contact local department of health.
I hate phone hot potato.

Camp map update needed: what have your camps used?

What are you using for managing part-time seasonal employees?  We use PayUSA for payroll (new provider) and I personally have used apps as a part time instructor in the past.  We’re a small-medium non profit in PA.  I think ideally we’re looking for an app to log in / out that will also manage full time salaried employees as well.  Bonus if it manages vacation calendars.

Hi all! Looking for examples of a med log used at summer day camps to track over-the-counter medications that are being dispensed to campers. We don't have a camp nurse, our camp staff are all Wilderness First Responders. Would love to see if anyone has one that they recommend, before I create my own. Thanks!

I have a legality question. I know that medical staff at camp are the only ones who can give meds to campers. As the director, can I give my staff vitamins, supplements, and things like Tylenol? 
The reason I ask, where my camp is, during staff training and the first camp everything is blooming, which leads to seasonal allergy attacks. When I first started at my camp, I was hit hard by environmental allergies that I was out for a few days. I want to have on hand, and include in their welcome to camp bag things like Emergency-C or something similar to immunity boost. I think this would help them especially with a change in environment, allergies, and having to work with children. I feel like this would give them a boost to start the season. Also for pain relief like Tylenol, I keep a personal bottle of Aleve locked in my office, and sometimes when staff are on break and the nurse is working with campers, staff will come to me asking if I have something that would help them out. I usually say go to the nurse or ask someone else to see if they have anything. I just want to make sure I know if I can or cannot offer any of these. If it helps, I'm located in Michigan.

Hi All, I just found out Eureka has shut down production and we need new tents for camp. We have been using the TL4 for years and now need to find a new tent that will withstand heavy use year round by programs. Dose anyone have any thoughts on new tents to look into?

ISO fun, fresh, and creative Staff Orientation ice breakers! Wanting to take the ugh out of doing ice breakers. Thanks in advance!

We have our first international camper joining us this summer. Parents have reached out asking for assistance with airport transportation (ie: is there someone on staff who can handle pickups etc), as well as some leeway in terms of arrivals and departure times. This is a first for us! 
What policies do y'all have in place with campers arriving to camp by airplane?

Pool Play question: our art + nature day camp is moving to a new location with a small pool for our afternoon swim "choice activity" time. I want to add some pool toys-- and also suggest some pool games to our staff. It's a small pool--20-24 kids swim at the time. What are your campers and counselors' favorite pool activities/games? What's worth buying (besides noodles and kickboards)? Thanks!!

Edit... Thank you all.  This is making me feel much better.  We are going to drive over and try again today.  Keep you updated.
Called to say to set up an appointment for SSN for international staff.  After being transfered to the national line they told us they are not using any new numbers per an order in March.
Any one else heard this yet?

General question. With the rising cost of credit card fees does your camp charge a credit card processing fee for your camp families when they register? We are torn as a leadership team to do this or not.

We’re looking at introducing tiered pricing for 2026. We use CampBrain and I’m wondering if there are any other camps who offer this pricing and also use CampBrain? How do you set up your rates for registration within CampBrain?

Does anyone have a slingshot range that would be willing to share their safety orientation/procedures for this program space?
We just built a slingshot range for the summer and are hoping to base our safety procedures off of what has worked well for other camps. Thank you in advance for any materials/advice!

We are looking to update our water troughs at camp... we've been using the same structures for over 50 years (pic for reference) and are searching for a solution that is easy for campers to use for teeth brushing and hand washing. What have folks done that works well for something like this?

Does anyone have a CIT manual you'd be willing to share or tips on how to create one?

What software or services do you use to manage your summer staff and volunteers? I've just been doing it via spreadsheet but we've been growing and it's getting to be more and more to keep track of. I hire about 40 summer staff and have probably about 30-40 volunteers that only come for a week so definitely looking for something to make that easier to manage.

Has anyone used KLF for recruiting a nurse?

For camps (especially summer camps) that you run that you open up to individuals to attend, do you require each individual to have medical insurance to attend your camp? What about for other events like volunteer project days, etc?

I am seeking information on alternative outdoor activities that other camps offer when inclement weather arises. Currently, our camp rarely conducts all-camp activities during rain, storms, or extreme cold. Instead, individual areas such as athletics and watersports are left to devise their own plans. However, indoor space is limited, and we aim to develop activities that correlate with the impacted outdoor pursuits, such as tennis, baseball, or canoeing. What strategies do your camps employ during unfavorable weather conditions?

Would be curious to see if there are any camps that have ICE protocols in place . Would be interested to seeing what organizations have.

Does anyone know of a safety training course, online or in-person, for go-karting?

I need advice or ideas about how to control the use of cellphone during the summer season . I’m taking about the counselors

Favorite staff training review game (kahoot, jeopardy, etc)

*CampMinder Users* 
How do you do staff evaluations?  Im brainstorming a way via custom fields and have the supervisors pull a report for their staff in their units/divisions and edit in line.  We're just limited on how many fields so keep everything within the width of a page/screen.
Any other ideas?  Do you do it externally (ie google docs, etc)?

Has anyone done an escape room type activity and if so, can you please share how and what you did? 

If anyone has a photography class and has found a camera that is durable for campers, easy to use, and decent quality I’d love to hear your recommendations. ￼TIA 

Considering nut ban: As we prepare for our 15th summer at our small outdoor days camp, I’ve been reflecting on how we support campers with severe food allergies- especially around peanuts and tree nuts. While we don’t serve any nut products at camp, families are currently allowed to pack them in their child’s lunch. We've always maintained no-sharing policies and handwashing routines, and thankfully, we’ve never had an incident.
That said, it takes significant staff attention to ensure safety, and I’ve noticed the quiet stress it can cause for some of our campers with allergies. I’m now thoughtfully considering whether a full nut-free policy might help create a more inclusive and low-stress environment.
I recognize that food bans can spark strong opinions, and I want to approach this decision with care. I’d really appreciate hearing from other camp professionals- have you implemented a nut-free policy at your day camp? What have been the pros and cons in your experience? Grateful for any insight or guidance my fellow camp pros are willing to share.

ISO a creative name for a Bluey-themed staff training  (love the life lessons in this show!)

What health documents do you require from your international staff members? I know these will vary state to state - but interested to know..

For smaller day camps (around 30 kids a week, 7 hours a day); do you have a nurse on staff? If so, is it full time and would you mind sharing how much you pay them? Do they get to bring their own children for free? TIA

Anyone have a creative/cool/functional set up for their camp pool or waterfront buddy board system??

Pros and Cons renting vans from Fleetpool USA? Any other suggestions? Thanks 

****** finished on this April 30
Micah Chin
Have any of you allowed groups to book your facilities without a certificate of insurance? If you have, would love to get your thoughts on how you navigate that from a liability perspective.