-- updated July 10

If a parent contacts you after a camp session to let you know that they think their child got lice at your camp, do you typically inform all the families from that session about possible lice?

Looking for photo sharing recommendations! Our caregivers reeeeally want to see photos of their campers. Thanks!

Anyone added a new high ropes element to their course recently and feel like they can give me a ballpark idea of cost? I know there are lots of variables, but we have an opportunity to apply for a grant and don't have much time to research before it's due. Any insight would be appreciated. I'm thinking about something like the picture below. We haven't done anything to our course for awhile and would love a new element.

Looking for some advice on conversation starters to use with a staff member who just isn’t warm with the kids. This is her fourth year with us. She’s in her early 20’s. She’s nice, organized, detail oriented, and practical, but sometimes to a fault. We brought her on as a lifeguard in a pinch a few years ago and she’s stayed ever since. She’s not rude or anything, I just don’t think she knows how to connect with campers and doesn’t see how she comes off to them sometimes. It’s hard to explain - her tone of voice maybe? Just very matter-of-fact with no connection. 
We’re on our first night of camp here and I just got a message from my team lead that a couple of kids told her they were afraid to knock on her door at night when they were feeling sick because of how they spoke to them yesterday. I don’t have the details yet but that is sort of her vibe so I’m gearing up for a nip it in the bud conversation.

I find there’s often a disconnect between intent and perception.
I’d approach it from the standpoint of the latter. Talk about how they are perceived, and emphasize that it likely isn’t and doesn’t need to be who they are, for the perception to still hold true. Remind them of the reason you hired them (all of the nice things you just said) and let them know that as they gain responsibility- often the perception of them grows increasingly more important. Managing perception is a skill we all flex daily and you believe this skill is an area of improvement for them this summer. *insert practical ways to practice this skill here*
TLDR: I think your keyword here to address is “perception”.

What are things that you do that go above and beyond for your campers? Moments that maybe aren't built into your program but are special examples of camp magic where you have pulled out all the stops to make campers, staff, or groups have an incredible experience.

Dealing with a difficult refund situation - could use some advice. Sorry for the long length! 
Family of 2 siblings and 1 cousin were new to our organization. 36 hours before they were due to report they called and said one of the campers had a medical issue (broken finger requiring surgery). The sibling didn't want to go if the other couldn't go - which now means the cousin also doesn't want to go. No time to pull anyone off the waitlist to fill these spots. 
We are a non-profit and have a progressive refund policy that technically says we do not give refunds within one month of your arrival date (though we aren't heartless and have made exceptions for medical issues). All parents sign off on the refund policy at registration.
I have already refunded them for the two siblings minus the $250 deposit per session. No refund for the cousin. They are pushing for full refunds. Losing the income from 3 campers is kind of a big deal for a small camp, but so it our reputation. 
What would your policy say in a situation like this where 3 people want to cancel? Do I hold my ground and hope she doesn't take to the internet or give them the refund to just get it over with and hope they go away nicely?

Has any other supervisor experienced this... younger staff texting that they don't feel well and should they still come in? As in - they are asking you as their supervisor if they feel well enough to work. ??? EDIT: we have no problem with a text. These are young twenty-somethings, not teenagers. We can not decide for them if they feel well enough to do their job. They know what the job entails and what is required. It's just interesting they are having trouble making this decision themselves. No, it is not our business as employer to interogate them on what their symptoms are. I would feel uncomfortable asking for personal health info.. but maybe because it's NYS. Thanks! 🙂

How does rule of three work with your health center when a camper is resting with just one Camp Nurse and no other health staff? We are thin on staff and can't really follow it without hurting other programing.

Do any medical camps have a policy in place for campers who use oxygen at camp to ensure safe storage and best practices?
If so would you be willing to share it? My email is eblosfelds@campaldersgate.net
Our medical directors have advised we have a policy in place before we can safely accept campers who use supplemental oxygen, oxygen concentrators, ventilators, etc. And we would love to see another camps policy for guidance.

At the risk of causing a heated discussion, curious about the opinions of the camp pros. Do you allow campers to wear thong bathing suits at your camp?

I sense a leadership pattern emerging this summer.
Looking at these and few dozen other post lead to my thoughts and the implications are:
Staff are reporting that what they were promised—either verbally or in writing—doesn’t match reality. That erodes trust and damages camp reputation.
Multiple staff are unhappy enough to consider mid-season transfers. While that may be rare in well-managed camps, it signals a breakdown in onboarding, culture-building, or support systems.
Staff are emotionally distressed, which undermines their ability to lead campers effectively. This can ripple into staff burnout, turnover, and negative camper experiences.
Camps may not be fully prepared to support international staff in terms of cultural onboarding, legal clarity, or emotional safety, leaving them feeling stranded or trapped.
Trust and communication seem to be the overarching issues.
I would love to hear your thoughts.

Our nurses are really struggling and I wanted to reach out to
This group and see how we can best support them since we still have another 5 weeks of sleep away camp. W have 1 RN , 1 EMT and 1 medical student in their 3rd year and medical assistant. We have 65 sleep away campers and 16 day campers ( who are only here M-F 8:45-5pm) . We also have 4 med liaisons who are responsible for getting campers to the health center for meds each day. I know meds are a big part of why feels overwhelming bc in the evening there are several campers who take meds at all different times and melatonin seems to be the hardest bc they need to give it out before bed. We have a fully stocked health center and the health staff work in shifts so from 7:30-11 one is one , then from 11-4:30 two are on , and then from 4:30-9 , two are on and from 9-12 am 1 is on . All our counselors and staff are trained in mental health first aid and general first aid CPR ... this happens every year where our nurses burn out and some always leave mid session and it's very stressful - we used to only have two and now this year , 3 , and it's still not solving there burn out and we are only 1 week in. Any ideas ? Is this common where you work ?
Update :
Ok so here are more details : there are 19 meds before breakfast w kids coming to HC w only one nurse on. 
Lunch there are 2 meds with 2 nurses on 
Dinner there are 5 meds w 2 nurses on 
Before bed there are 8 meds with 2 nurses on 
67 kids total in all of camp. Tell me how I can make it easier on them
Also feel like my RN might quit and not sure what to do in that situation

A question was recently asked about fair compensation for our seasonal program staff. We pay a basic weekly rate that increases with experience and/or responsibility. Night duty is part of the job responsibilities and we include a 2 hour break on full days and about 40 hours off (Friday evening to Sunday morning). 
What are the other ways you compensate your staff? 
The concern was related to questions involving minimum wage. 
Thanks for your help and insight. I hope you are all having a fabulous summer!

Challenges with counselors who don’t sleep at night! We are an overnight camp and the counselors came for a week of training. Staff are unable to get the counselors settled down by midnight. We can see that these counselors are zombies in the morning and are clearly sleep deprived!
How do you handle this?

Hi all! We are looking for a new unit/travel bag for our first aid kits. These are the ones that travel with the group throughout the day, ideally they would be a fanny pack style, lot’s of pockets, big enough to hold our regular first aid supply. The fanny pack styles we have right now are just not big enough. Anyone have ones they swear by? Thanks!

first year (at a new camp) activity director here. really struggling with them not providing adequate resources or enough staff for the program to be good and safe. feel like i'm being set up to fail. advice welcome!

Does anyone have a short like, 5 minute staff evaluation check in? That evaluates like baseline performance type things? Not the activity observation ones from ACA (I'm already using those) but I'm looking to add  a quick like 5 minute evaluation I can do with my staff. I already have in place self-evaluation, check-ins they do with mid-level leadership. There was a document on the ACA website for a 5 minute evaluation but it's not longer able to be found. I'd love some sample documents if anyone is willing to share. Just looking to revamp the one that I normally do half-way through the summer. Thanks! Just looking for something simple I can use to do an easy overall assessment update for my various staff halfway through our summer. Would appreciate any suggestions.

Does anyone have a staff training checklist that they have created that works well for them?  A list of required topics that the staff sign off that they've completed.  Thanks!

Hi everyone! I’m posting this mostly out of curiosity, but to those of you who work at a camp site year-round, how did you get into this position and what do your days look like in the off season?
I’ve been with the same camp for over a decade now, wearing multiple hats (this year as camp photographer!) but our camp is a week long medical camp (type 1 diabetes) and a week is never enough! (At least for me 😅) 
I would love to hear how it all works from your end!

Anyone in the Ontario region 🇨🇦 know where I can source used tot docks?

Does anyone's background check providers in the US include court access fees in their background checks? 
Does anyone have a reliable (e.g. forthcoming) background check company that you like and has a decent turnaround time?
8888
Background:
We just got hit by a surprised multi-hundred dollar bill by Shield Screening, LLC. I got told by the sales rep over the phone that there may be an occasional 3 to 10 dollar fee. He knew we were on a tight budget. Today, I discovered on the invoice that every person had a fee, and some of those fees were 100 dollars. It added up very fast.
While I have provided the company with this feedback, I doubt I will see any recourse. I recognize this was relayed over the phone and thus my options are limited to what I choose to do in the future. Lesson learned.

Some more camp nursing questions ( to compare our protocol ) 
1. If staff or campers are sick who brings them their meals ?
2. Do kids come before meals to HC to get meds or do nurses go to meals and distribute ? ( our nurses are saying they are having a hard time getting a meal themselves ) 
3. If campers are sick do they stay in cabins or dorms w other campers or go and stay in the infirmary ? Do nurses have to stay in the infirmary at all times if their is a camper in their ? There are no meds etc in our infirmary 
4. Are you standing doctors orders just the dr signing off on the protocol or is your doctor actively involved in everyday camp ? 
5. For camps who say they have 1 nurse for hundreds of kids - what does that schedule look like , breaks etc ? How do other staff help support health and wellness at camp ?

Has anyone used SoFi this year for J1 visa holders? We are trying and they are saying that a US ID is needed which is news to me. A ssn should be enough

I have some English internationals looking to set up direct deposit. Any one have any good apps/services that their staff have used to make this happen? As a camp, we need a routing number and account number and for some reason my staff can't get PayPal or Wise to give that information to her.

Who are you using for Van rentals? We've been using a company for 10 plus years in the last 2 years have not been great. This year, we were given a Mercedes sprinter 2500. It's about the size of two Ford transits put together. Totally inappropriate for younger/seasonal drivers to be transporting kids in.  The transporter also showed up well after business hours. I received basically zero customer service in response, although they were able to swap out the giant 15 passenger van for a regular 12 passenger. It won't quite meet our needs. At least we feel safe putting our drivers and campers in it.

Question for (mainly) day camps. I always have parents ask me to help them connect with other parents for carpooling purposes. Does anyone have a method that can essentially take you out of being the middleman?

Howdy camp friends! Hope y’all are having an amazing start to the summer. Quick pulse check on medications - is anyone else experiencing a ton more kids on medications this year?! It seems like we’re constantly managing medications whether it’s day camp or overnight camp. What’s it like for everyone else out there and how has this either helped or hurt your operation? Is there anything you’re doing to support staff / campers / families in this space?
HAPPY CAMPING☀️

Any eyeliner recommendations that can make it through the blood, sweat, and tears of a camp day?

Hi friends. Around this time of the season, many camps have a common but always-challenging experience: One parent calls asking the camp not to communicate with the other parent and not to allow the other parent to pick up the camper. What to do when this call comes in? We explore this topic in the latest Camp Law Blog.

Camp friends—anyone else in CA having major issues getting Social Security numbers for international staff this summer?
We’re running into 3-hour wait times just to make an appointment on the phone, and the online option gave us an appointment after camp ends.
In desperation, we showed up at an office and we were told to leave because we didn't have an appointment.
Would love to hear any tips, tricks, or creative workarounds others have found. We’re in Northern California and open to ideas—thanks in advance!

Does your camp have a policy for controlled substances that isn’t zero tolerance? What does that look like for campers? Trying to wrap my head around a policy that offers a route for repairing trust and harm rather than immediate dismissal.

Happy camp season! 
I know many of you all do overnight camps, so this might not be a situation you've dealt with before but I still thought I would see if I could get any insight from you all. 
We are a day camp thats runs m-f ages 6-11.
I had a parent call asking if we would allow her son's RBT(registered behavior technician) attend camp with him from10-3. 
We ultimately had to say no for this year because of the liability issues, and such but we would like to look into it for upcoming years. 
Has anyone else had this request, or dealt with something in this wheelhouse?

We are starting to explore using a kitchen management service next summer. Looking for recommendations of companies you use and like.

Does your camp have a policy for alcohol, weed, and/or vapes that isn’t zero tolerance? What does that look like for campers? Counselors?

This feels like a huge accomplishment the day before Check In😂. - You've read all messages in Inbox.

Does anyone have an emergency use EpiPen in their infirmary with standing orders from a doctor? And if so, where do you get the EpiPen?

So this summer we have a trans staff member. He would like to be called by his new name, which is not yet reflected legally on his ID or social security. I am wonding for payroll purposes if I need to use his legal birth name or if I can use his new name as long as all of his information on his tax forms is correct.
Has anyone had a situation like this before? I want to make sure I am respectful, but also legal. Advice on how to handle this properly would be helpful 🙂

I find joy in this every year, but you know it’s camp time bc the amount of exclamation points in emails has multiplied exponentially !!!
Let’s HAGS

Where do you all purchase your bulk lifejackets? We use them for both boating and swimming!

Do any of you have CIT programs for 15 year olds? If so what does that look like? How much do you pay them, job responsibilities, how many hours a week?

Looking for Website inspo! 
My camp has a field trips, Day and Overnight camps available. We aren’t sure what is the best way to format our website.
We want a website that is easy to navigate for all guests. Any guidance would be appreciated!

Any other first time Summer Directors out there? 
I’m heading into Week 4 of summer camp and honestly… I’m struggling. I’m feeling the weight of the season and really not wanting to go to work right now.
Would love to connect with others who are also in their first summer in a director role—or those who remember what that was like. How did you get through it? What helped you feel grounded, encouraged, or just less alone?
I could really use a community to lean on right now. 💛

Do you send your families anything after camp? A feedback survey, suggestions on how to get your kid to talk about their time at camp, etc.

Hello camp professionals. Our camp is considering adding four to eight RV spots at the edge of our camp so we can generate more income. Do y'all have any advice or best practices? Any pictures of what y'all have done? 
We are in the research phase to see what all needs to be done and how. At this moment we will not have a dump-site. We will add a dump-site after we save a bit from the RV site income. We will have electricity and water available.
Interested in Christian apps and websites for RV spots so we can add our camp when the spots are ready.

Friends, discovered we had a "code brown," or fecal matter in the pool this evening. We cleared the pool and removed the material. Everything I see says increase chlorine to 2 ppm while maitaining pH at 7.5 or less for at least 30 minutes, which we've done. Is that all we have to do? Would appreciate any input.

Camps that use buddy boards: How do you enforce it with your campers? It is our second year with the buddy board system and our youngest campers seem to still really struggle with remembering to use their tags, move them one they get out of the water, etc.

HELP!
**edited to add: 
We do lots of water play and swimming so kids are changing in and outt of them 
My campers are kiddos 5-21 with intellectual and developmental disabilities. We require that camp logo tshirts be worn on Tuesdays and Fridays. 
My campers don’t all have the ability to keep track of their own stuff. We constantly have shirts that don’t go home or go to the wrong home since we’re community based. Any ideas on how to keep them straight?

Hi camp pros- checking in with everyone who is about to experience a significant heat wave next week: how are you planning to keep campers cool? We are an overnight camp with about 100 campers, no pool, and no A/C in our cabins.

Hi Camp Pros!

With everything happening in the world right now, I wanted to share a few free resources that might be helpful for staff training—especially as we support campers navigating big feelings and tough news.
You can find an article, "When Campers Have Big Feelings: Helping Them Navigate Life, the News, and Growing Up" written specifically for summer staff in the May/June issue of Camping Magazine here:
https://www.acacamps.org/article/camping-magazine/when-campers-have-big-feelings-helping-them-navigate-life-news-growing
I've also attached a one-page handout you can use as a conversation starter during staff training sessions.

I’m looking for recommendations for a website that offers training material and courses that can be used for staff professional development in soft and or technical skills.
Ideally it would be a single site that offers a subscription that enables staff to access any of the content and provides a CPD certificate upon completion of the chosen courses.
Do you have any suggestions?

Advice Please:
As we head into camp training next week I'm feeling anxious - the past two summers have been extremely hard. Last summer we had 7 people pull out just weeks before camp started ( in a staff of 30) - lost another 3 during staff training and another 5 between having to let 4 people go and someone else leave. This year I've hired 7 additional staff to help cover - but I'm even feeling like I need maybe more than that. My two directors both let me know they are feeling really anxious heading into summer and I want to make sure I'm a good support for them. I'm the executive director so I'm not on site daily - but will be a lot . I'm giving each director a paid week off of camp for mental health ... and we are only doing 6 weeks ( 3 sleep away sessions ) this year instead of 8 weeks. What can I do to help my directors feel good ? Should I make a few more last minute hires incase of emergencies ?
*** for context for are a sleep away and day camp and have 37 staff and around 60 sleep away kids and 15 day campers per session. Our staff work in split shifts so we have probably 18-20 on at all times w that amount of kids ( though all staff sleep on campus and are essentially on call)

What’s your favorite nature-based camp craft? I’m looking for something that uses natural materials and is something most kids couldn’t do at home. Whatcha got?

Hello. We recently got a turf field . Does anyone have any protocol for when it would be too hot to play on the turf ?

California overnight camp insurance question:
Does anyone who is part of a larger organization have separate camp-specific workers comp insurance?

We all joke about writing a book, some day, about our experiences. I think I have the title: "Camp Fires, Dumpster Fires, and S'More."

I heard ACA offers a free virtual course for canoe and kayak certification but I have not been able to find the link. Wondering if anyone has it to share?

Hello 👋 I am responsible for our camp dining hall and making sure things run smoothly. Any ideas from others on what they do or what works for them would be appreciated. Our camp averages 200 campers.

Hi all! At our camp, we have campers rotate through an activity called "evaluation" where we get feedback about their time at camp. Does anyone have a set of prompts or questions your camp uses for camper feedback that you really like? I want to give our questions a mixup, and I'm hoping to ask better questions that can lead to more actionable items for next season.

ISO Lifeguard Instructor in Metro Detroit ASAP!

Does anyone have a good solution for an outdoor sports court to help contain volleyballs & basketballs that roll away from the court area?

What ladders do you have on your docks? Our dock sits anywhere between 1 and 3 ft off the top of our lake (depends on the time of the summer) and we need to replace our aging ladders. What do your look like?

Need some help navigating a situation. I run a small summer camp and have a team of 7 staff at each week of camp. My organization also has a school program in the spring and I have been piloting a new speciality program.
I hired a guy to pilot the specialty program and I had him working the school program and scheduled to work 6 weeks of camp to round out his hours to make it a more sustainable position. 
This guy was GREAT. Staff love him. He’s making great progress on the new program. I had a meeting with him two days ago where he was sharing his plans for the pilot program in the summer…
And then yesterday he texts me to say he’s been offered a different job and won’t be able to work past the end of the month.
I feel absolutely blindsided. It is two weeks before our camp staff training. There was no indication that he was looking for other work. I certainly don’t fault anyone for needing to prioritize a potentially full time job but it feels absolutely awful. And now I have to scramble to fill his role.
I played it cool when he texted me yesterday but now I feel like making a respectful comment about how it would have been nice to know if he was looking into other jobs instead of blindsiding me two weeks before camp starts. I know he doesn’t have an obligation to share that info but it seems almost mean to string us along and then drop that out of nowhere. It would be different if we were a big organization but the team is so tiny.
I can’t tell if I’m just in my feels about this so any feedback would be great!

Phones are obviously an issue with staff…but I’ve never had an issue with smartwatches! We’re on day 2 of training and I have a couple staff who cannot leave their Apple Watches alone. 
These are allowed within our wider organization, so I dont think I am able to ban them…but it’s been frustrating. Is anybody else dealing with this?

So many of our young adult staff do not drive...way more than prior years. What kind of support do you provide for days off (weekends, in our case) when a large % are "stuck at camp?" It has caught us a bit off-guard. I think we had 15 here last weekend which is almost 50% of the seasonal team (5 are international staff). Last summer we had almost no one staying on days off!

OMG if I get another email asking for a change or new enrollment after the deadline, I'm gonna scream! The answer is NO. Parents don't understand all the behind the scenes work that goes into prepping for the next week. I just had to vent

What do yall do for your kids with allergies? We keep running into the issue of during meal time the camper will forget to pick up their special meal (even though it's right next to the other meal and they have to walk past it) and we're having several near misses. We've been tossing around the idea of a wristband system that they could wear that cues the servers/kitchen staff to make sure they get a special meal but doesn't necessarily loudly point them out to the whole group. What have yall found that works?

In CA- are your 18 and over staff okayed to go in the swimming pool during their off hours when there is no lifeguard working?

Toying with the idea of purchasing a 100+ acre day camp. Would love to talk to someone about what owning a camp like that entails.

Does anyone know of another program besides epipens4schools that helps non-profits have emergency epis on site?

There's a site somewhere that has little staff training courses for $10 or something. I cannot remember what it is called!

Does anyone have a rescue board for their lake that they love? We purchased some from Red Cross 3-4 summers ago but they're too small to do the waterfront saves required in the course and they tip over pretty quickly. If we had a true emergency, I think it'd be pretty difficult to get a victim in. Looking for recommendations. Thank you!

Is anyone still looking for a head cook or kitchen manager for this summer? This is my third summer working at camps in a kitchen, with previous years as a sous chef and a head cook. I'd be willing to travel to get to camp!

We're looking to replace our E-Z-GO Workhorse with something that can better handle accessing areas with rutted out trails, etc. Any recommendations?

Hi! We just wrapped up our Counselor-in-Training Week (teenagers) and unfortunately had multiple reports of vapes/weed that we could not verify. We spoke to each kid and they denied having these items with them.
What do you do at your camp to prevent prohibited items and to address it when it comes up? We are already explicit in all our communications that these items should not be brought to camp. 
We’ve been racking our brains this week about what we could do next summer. Some ideas so far:
- calling home and having the parent speak with their child about it
- installing vape detectors in our cabins - does anyone do this?
- doing bag searches before camp
As you’d imagine, this was really frustrating and really detracted from the camp magic and connection we were hoping for. I’d be grateful for any ideas.

Hello! I hope you're all doing well. I am an experienced BIPOC outdoor educator and trail guide. I would really like to further my career in the outdoor industry by obtaining my WFR, LGI, ACCT 2, PCIA, and SPI certs. I am wondering if y'll know of any opportunities that might be able to help support me in doing this? So far, I have really struggled to break in to this industry as usually one of the only BIPOC staff. Thank you in advance for any potential help!

You know you're a camp pro when you hear about a pool at Lake Tahoe where the state line runs through the middle and all you can think about is how much of a regulatory nightmare that must be.

Parent messaged today to ask what my plans were for what's going on in La (?) has anyone else had any parent concern ?

I'm overseeing a licensed day camp program. I have a question regarding buddy checks (while seimming) on field trips.
Our polices state that while we are off site (swimming at waterparks or local pools) we have to do routine buddy checks with our campers. The struggle I'm running into is that these are very busy public places with their own facility provided lifeguards. These places are too loud and busy that if we verbally yell "Buddy Check!", only a small portion of the group hears us. If we try to whistle or have some sort of loud noise, the establishments immediately tell us that we can't do that because it confuses and concerns the other public patrons. 
So, I'm asking for advise in regards to how other camps conduct buddy checks while off site in busy, loud, public locations. 
All advise and suggestions are welcome. Thank you.

Hey community! Is there anyone here who is hiring or has hired an international staff person who is also transgender? We’re having some logistical issues & I’d love to chat with anyone who has experience with this!

Anyone have a great name they want to share for the practice of making little bags / mailboxes and allowing staff to write words of encouragement / praise for each other during staff training?
We've used "Warm n' Fuzzies" in the past and I've also heard them called "Praise Bags" but.. I'd like to think through more options. Thanks!

Long time lurker, first time poster! It’s my first year doing a camp and I want to learn as much as I can! What are some things you learned through experience and wish you could tell the beginner version of yourself? Looking for any and all tips!

Do any camps provide paid parental or caregiver leave for their staff?  We are gathering information about different camps and how they address this issue for full-time staff.
Please consider completing this Google form to share info - thanks in advance!

Hello all! I was laid off this year from a job I loved in a related industry (outdoor guiding). Currently in a temporary accounting job while I figure out what's next. I am feeling the draw to return back to summer camps (have been a counselor and intern about 10 years ago, my college degree was focused on Recreation/Camps) but feeling a little distant from the industry. Any tips on what certifications or experience I can get on my resume in anticipation for applying as full times roles open this year or when seasonal jobs for next summer open up this winter? Thanks!

Are staff training manuals a thing of the past? What are we doing instead?

Hey yall - day camp director here. Does anyone have any hacks for making groups? We have 300 kids per session, and many put friend requests which I try to honor (otherwise there are tears and parent emails etc etc).   Putting these  groups together takes blood, sweat and tears (not really but it’s a super arduous endeavor!) every two weeks. We use CampMinder as  camper info system.   Does anyone know of any AI or digital tool (or other system/process) that  would help me create these groupings more efficiently? Any advice or insight is appreciated 

Can we take a moment to appreciate that first morning where you roll into camp super early and get to say good morning to all your wilderness friends before they get wise to the kids and start hiding even earlier?

Does anyone do any programming that involves LEGO? Like a creation space for campers or something along those lines? My wheels are turning as we have some newly available open space indoors which is around 16X16 shell.

Wondering about Small Craft Safety training options. 
I really liked the Red Cross Small Craft Safety resource.  I have a copy of the DVD and the book. Since that program was discontinued by the Red Cross, are there other similar programs available?

Looking for high visibility solution for our staff - we’ve used visivests but they are not that “cool”. Only put on over outside gear when doing certain activities so not a T-shirt or jacket…

I need some input on a bat situation conversation.
This morning as parents were leaving after closing ceremony, a mother and camper came up and said the camper had woken up late at night and let a bat out of the sleeping yurt without waking anyone, or letting anyone know, until coming up to us at the end of the session. The camper is 8. 
Parents and campers from that yurt were on there way home, so we sent an email shortly after explaining that there may have been a bat in the sleeping area late that night, and included resources about bat behavior and disease transmission, but making no hard recommendations.
We spoke with our Director of Veterinary Medicine on staff who has many years of zoonotic disease experience, she agreed that notifying the parents was the correct course of action of course. After explaining the situation and the behavior of the bat she was not extreamly concerned, but of course wanted to make sure everyone had the information to make their decision on whether to seek medical treatment or not.
With all of that said, the original parent has been worriedly emailing about the seriousness of the situation (which we understand), they have the girls from that soecific group that came to camp together currently getting their shots at the hospital. She is not Irate or really upset or asking for anything, but I am at a loss of how to respond without coming off as defensive.
Would you do anything else, or differently in this situation? Should I just say you should 100% go get your camper the treatmentent to all of the families?
Here is the conversation:
Staff- 
Hello all! 
We hope you had a safe trip back home and are hearing lots of great stories about camp! 
I just wanted to reach out and touch base with you all regarding a situation we were made aware of following closing ceremony today. This morning a camper reported that there was a bat inside of one of the yurts early this morning. Overall, we do not feel as if there is a large amount of concern from this situation, based on consultation with our Conservation Medicine team. Since the bat was able to fly and not stuck on the ground there is a low chance for the presence of rabies. We still wanted to reach out and make you aware of the situation. 
If you have any questions or concerns, Bat Conservation International has lots of great resources available over bat behavior, disease transmission, and signs and symptoms. Feel free to reach out to our team for any other questions. 
Parent-Unfortunately protocol in this situation is a series of three rabies shots. According to our doctor. All I sent them was your email. FYI. All of the girls in our area were advised by doctors to get shots - a series of 3 rabies shots. We are at urgent care. 
Staff- We have spoken again with our Director of Veterinary Medicine, and with the information we have, we are currently advising that staff and families take the situation into account to make their own personal decisions on whether or not they would like to seek medical treatment or get tested. 
I do want to say again I really appreciate you both for bringing this to our attention and allowing us to inform the other families, as this is extremely important information.
Please let us know if there is any information we can provide, and again it was great to have everyone at camp!
Parent- Please make sure your counselor is aware that this is the post exposure prophylactic treatment. All of the girls in the yurt need this. You can't take this stuff lightly. We've had 4 different doctors say the same thing. And all they are aware of is your email. We are with 4 girls at children's now.

Hey all,
I know that it happens alot when hiring,  but this year it seems to be a lot more than normal.   We have had many people apply, Set up an interview,  then ghost completely, some have went through the interview (and everything seems good)  then when we go to offer the job they block our number.
I had two people who filled out the application yesterday,  I spoke with them this morning to set up an interview for later this evening,  and both ghosted completely.
I've spoken with other Camp Directors and they have seen the same increase this year.
Any idea/recommendation to help alleviate this from happening,  because it has been effect my staff/interviewers in a negative way?

We want to put some mats down outside our camper shower stalls so folks aren't stepping out of the shower onto the bathroom floor. Anyone have anything they love for this purpose?

Traditional (not special needs) camps: have you tried to integrate a camper with hearing loss? A family reached out to us about this, and their child does not have a hearing device. They said she could communicate with gestures and a phone app. We want to be inclusive, but we have not had this situation before, and I am especially concerned if there is an emergency situation where instructions need to be given and understood quickly and efficiently. Thank you for your insights!

Our situation is a little unique - my husband and I direct a 500 person summer camp, but it's only for one week and we rent our campground.  Our campground facility is amazing and we LOVE the director of the campground and all she does for us.  This year we would love to bring some sort of small gift for her just to let her know how much we appreciate her.  I thought I would ask here what would be appreciate by people who do this day in and day out.  Ideas?  The camp is in the southeast.  I'm posting anonymously just in case she happens to be in this group!

Anyone use chalk on their fields? Looking for a recommendation for a machine and supplier

I'm having a hard time with counselors getting campers settled down for bed. One thought is having the overhead led lights on the entire evening leading up to switching the lights off to complete darkness. I'm on a mission to figure out a cost effective lamp or lighting that can be added to 32 cabin rooms so that they can be used the last 30 minutes before lights out. Any cost effective ideas?!

Hello Fellow Camps,
Has anyone discovered a low-cost payment processing service that they use in their camp store for credit/debit cards and tap pay? We are currently paying so much in fees per transaction for an abundance of small purchases (i.e., a candy bar, soda, snacks, stickers, etc.) to our youth campers and we really want to shy away from requiring a dollar limit per transaction. If you have any recommendations, I would be so grateful.
Background: most processing services (i.e., Square, US Bank, etc.) that I have researched are charging 2.6% + .10 or .15 cents per transaction, often with a monthly minimum fee of $60 or greater. Note for about 3 months out of the year we barely sell items in the camp store, but annually we sell approximately $9,500.

I've been at my camp for 10 years, and we've always done a "Camper orientation" meeting shortly after they arrive, where different staff come on stage and talk about various aspects of camp and what they need to know, including some safety aspects (no running in the pool house, wear closed toe shoes when you go to the ropes course, etc). My boss is wanting to change gears and record the staff on video and show the campers a video instead of live. 
I have some ideas floating around in my head and I'm going to start filming clips tomorrow, but I thought I'd ask if anyone has any suggestions, advice, or even a similar video that you'd be able to share?

I know this has been talked about earlier in the spring , but bc of all the latest updates - how are your J1 staff feeling ? Mine are super nervous and I'm wondering what I can do to give them the most support and care to come over and not feel scared Marley Kaye Zadie Butkiewicz - any ideas ?

This has been asked a thousand times but I’m wondering if anyone has new ideas for staff appreciation gifts. Needs to be budget friendly. Thanks!

This year we have incorporated a Child Safety Training into our pre-camp training for all our volunteers.  The video is about 40 minutes long and is from Protect My Ministry.
I am looking for some feedback, but how young would you say is appropriate for volunteers to watch the video?  We have some volunteers who are 14 and 15 years old.  And I/We are thinking 16 years old and up.  However, statistically, since 2020, 35.6% of 10 - 19-year-olds are perpetrators.

Does anyone have any suggestions for long range walkies that would work through concrete walls?

I would love to know how you would handle a hand, foot, and mouth outbreak at your overnight camp!?

What is your typical response time to parents when they email during the session? Do you set expectations about when they can expect a response? Just curious what is reasonable as we have SO many emails and calls to respond to and most are not urgent. We tell them we will contact them first if there is a concern regarding their camper, but the regular "how is my camper doing" emails tend to be lower priority. We also tell them to call if it is an emergency or time sensitive matter.  What is your response time to that type of email and how do you manage it?
I have an automatic response set up saying 24-48 hours. If it is urgent, to please call our office.
Out of Office: Summer Camp in Full Swing! 🏕️🌞
Hi there!
It’s that magical time of year—summer camp is in full swing! The birds are chirping, the squirrels are running wild, and the kids? Well, they’re screaming… with laughter, of course!
Our team is currently knee-deep in crafts, canoe races, and s'mores, so our inboxes are a little slower than usual. Please allow 24–48 hours for a response.
If your message is urgent, please don’t hesitate to call our office directly. No call or news? That usually means all is well in the woods!
Thanks for your patience and your camp spirit!
Campfully yours,
I would say between 36-48h but it might not be realistic. I would have an automatic response saying du to the high volume of inquiries there is a 72h delay, that way gives you time and if you respond faster there are happy and also have an expectation.

For science-themed camp sessions, besides the science-specific activities, do you do anything to make traditional camp activities feel more science-y? Any special themes meals, pointing out scientific concepts at the ropes course, or cabin names/theming?

A couple questions re: emergency protocols and procedures (missing person, hurricane, tornado, active shooter, etc.):
• Did you work with a professional to develop yours?
• How do you communicate these to your guest groups (prior to arrival? onsite orientation?)?

Hello ! I am looking to make our Archery program more inclusive for adult campers with disabilities. Right now we have youth size genesis compound bows. Any suggestions on bow types/brands, such as cross bows- for those that do not have the ability to pull back?  Thank you!

I work at a day camp. We discovered one of our campers with what we think is ringworm on his leg. He was covering it with a leg sleeve. We’ll talk to his dad when he gets picked up today, but are there any guidelines or best practices I need to be aware of? Thank you! -Sarah

Ok for sleep away camps that do transportation. Our system is not working . Below is what we currently do. Any feed back would be so appreciated/ and / or a break down of how you run transportation. We had 3 kids miss flights today . Two staff. I'm just curious how many staff you send to do airport pick ups .. with unaccompanied minor tickets it's very tricky 
We are a small sleep away camp in Ojai , Ca about an hour and a half from LAX . The majority of our families drive to us from California - but we offer a bus that picks up and drops off at lax and Beverly Hills high. 
Maybe we have 10 kids fly to us and another 5 on the La shuttle per session ( again the same bus and same staff) . So it's def worth it for us to keep it . We charge $100 each way for the shuttle. 
Our flight windows and la shuttle windows are :
Flights into LAX should arrive between 10AM and 2PM PST on arrival day
Flights out of LAX should depart between 1PM and 5PM PST departure day
Campers hopping on the shuttle at Beverly Hills High School to catch a ride to camp should meet our staff at 3:30. The shuttle departs at 4:00PM
Camper pick up at Beverly Hills High School is at 10:30AM departure day
Dinner for us is at 5:3

Hello Heroes,
I’m a camp consultant and this summer I’ve been observing day camps. Kind of like a “secret shopper”.  A new trend I’m noticing is counselors not engaging with campers - I’ve watched three different camps for a total of 24ish hours and the dialogue I’ve witnessed is only directives and discipline.
Remind your staff to connect with children, have conversations and more than anything - be authentic!